In a graph, the centrality of a node measures the importance of the node in the graph. There are different ways to measure the importance.
## Degree Centrality
Intuitively, a node can be considered important if there are many other nodes connected to it. Hence, we can measure the centrality of a given node based on its [[Definitions#Degree]]. In particular, for node $v_i$, its degree centrality can be defined as $c_d(v_i) = d(v_i)$.
## Eigenvector Centrality
Though degree-based centrality considers a node with many neighbors as important, it treats all neighbors equally. However, the neighbors themselves can have different importance; thus, they could affect the importance of the central node differently. The *eigenvector centrality* defines a centrality score of a given node $v_i$ by considering the centrality scores of its neighboring nodes as $$c_e(v_i) = \frac{1}{\lambda}\sum_{j=1}^N\textbf{A}_{i,j}\cdot c_e(v_j),$$ which can be rewritten in matrix form as $$\textbf{c}_e = \frac1\lambda\textbf{Ac}_e$$where $\textbf{c}_e\in\mathbb{R}^N$ is a vector containing the centrality scores of all nodes in the graph. Clearly $\textbf{c}_e$ is an eigenvector of the matrix $\textbf{A}$ with its corresponding eigenvalue $\lambda$. However, given an adjacency matrix $\textbf{A}$, there exist multiple pairs of eigenvectors and eigenvalues. Usually, we want the centrality scores to be positive. Hence, we wish to choose an eigenvector with all positive elements. According to the [[Perron-Frobenius Theorem]], a real squared matrix with positive elements has a unique largest eigenvalue and its corresponding eigenvector has all positive elements. Thus, we can choose $\lambda$ as the largest eigenvalue and its corresponding eigenvector as the centrality score vector.
## Katz Centrality
Katz centrality is a variant of eigencentrality, which not only considers the centrality scores of the neighbors but also includes a small constant for the central node itself. Specifically, the Katz centrality for a node $v_i$ can be defined as: $$c_k(v_i) = \alpha\sum_{j=1}^N\textbf{A}_{i,j}c_k(v_j)+\beta,$$where $\beta$ is a constant. The Katz centrality scores for all nodes can be expressed in matrix form as $$\textbf{c}_k = \alpha\textbf{Ac}_k + \beta$$ where $\textbf{c}_k\in\mathbb{R}^N$ denotes the Katz centrality score vector for all of the nodes and $\beta$ is the vector containing the constant term $\beta$ for all of the nodes. Note that the Katz centrality is equivalent to the eigencentrality if we set $\alpha=\frac{1}{\lambda_\text{max}}$ and $\beta=0$, with $\lambda_\text{max}$ the largest eigenvalue of the adjacency matrix $\textbf{A}$. The choice of $\alpha$ is important: A large $\alpha$ may make the matrix $I-\alpha\cdot\textbf{A}$ ill-conditioned but small $\alpha$ may make the centrality score useless because it will assign very similar scores close to $\beta$ for all nodes. In practice, $\alpha <\frac{1}{\lambda_\max}$ is often selected, which ensures that the matrix $I-\alpha\cdot\textbf{A}$ is invertible and $\textbf{c}_k$ can be calculated as $$\textbf{c}_k=(I-\alpha\textbf{A})^{-1}\mathbf{\beta}.$$
## Betweenness Centrality
The aforementioned centrality scores are based on the connections to neighboring nodes. Another way to measure the importance of a node is to check whether it is at an important position in the graph. Specifically, if there are many paths passing through a node, it is at an important position in the graph. Formally, we define the betweenness centrality score for a node $v_i$ as $$C_b(v_i) = \sum_{v_s\neq v_i\neq v_t}\frac{\sigma_{st}(v_i)}{\sigma_{st}},$$where $\sigma_{st}$ denotes the total number of shortest paths from node $v_s$ to node $v_t$ and $\sigma_{st}(v_i)$ indicates the number of these paths passing through node $v_i$. We need to compute the summation over all possible pairs of nodes for the betweenness centrality score. Therefore, the magnitude of the betweenness centrality score scales as the size of the graph scales. Hence, to make the betweenness centrality score comparable across different graphs, we need to normalize it. One effective way is to divide the betweenness score by the largest possible betweenness centrality score given a graph. The maximum of the betweenness score can be reached when all of the shortest paths between any pair of nodes pass through the node $v_i$. That is, $\frac{\sigma_{st}(v_i)}{\sigma_{st}}=1, \forall v_s\neq v_i\neq v_t$. There are, in total, $\frac{(N-1)(N-2)}{2}$  pairs of nodes in an undirected graph. Hence, the maximum betweenness centrality score is $\frac{(N-1)(N-2)}{2}$. We then define the normalized betweenness centrality score $c_{nb}(v_i)$ for the node $v_i$ as $$c_{nb}(v_i) = \frac{2}{(N-1)(N-2)}\sum_{v_s\neq v_i\neq v_t}\frac{\sigma_{st}(v_i)}{\sigma_{st}}.$$

